and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out my weekly emails where I share
actionable B2B marketing website tips
podcasts useful goodies and more you can
give a shot over at businessgrowth dot
email
so join me today I've got Ellen Schwartz
Ellen's the senior director of the man
gen over at Notch and also host of the
pros and content podcast Ellen welcome
to the show how you doing hey hey Sam
it's great to be here thanks for having
me yeah likewise excited to jump in
we're gonna be talking why the middle of
the funnel not the top not the bottom
but namely the middle is important for
your B2B marketing and how that really
impact revenue for your business for the
months to come
um so I suppose as we'd like to do on
this show we don't like to to beat
around the bush
um so I suppose to tee off the
conversation Alan when we say a B2B
marketing funnel what are we really
talking about are we talking about like
a big jug that gets narrower and
narrower and we Chuck our prospects in
at the end we get the shiny gold or is
it a bit more to it than that
um there's of course going to be a bit
more to it than that but I think
everybody wants it to look like what you
described everybody's really excited for
it to just be one straight line right
across where they follow exactly the
steps you've laid out for them
um unfortunately that's not exactly how
it's going to work out most of the time
so when we talk about a B2B funnel uh
traditionally and kind of most
simplistically we're talking about
getting people from a stage of not
knowing about you at all into awareness
so that's the top the biggest piece of
the funnel and then down through
um consideration so do they want your
product or not and I think I just
skipped one but we'll get back to that
it'll be fine awareness consideration
decision making and then turning into a
customer
sure sure so there's there's quite a few
stages right from from uh being the
initial interest to conversion
exactly in a very much very much pens
aren't there
up there but that is that's the gist of
what we're we're going to talk about
today yeah yeah looking forward to
jumping in would you say
because everyone like you only have to
go on your LinkedIn feed to get some B2B
marketer's opinion on how the funnel
works well what the best strategy is to
to actually convert prospects from
initial first seeing your brand let's
say for the first time right through the
becoming a qualified demo or quote
opportunity through to one business
um and and Revenue
is is the path linear because you've
only got to look at a few articles like
from the HubSpot blog or otherwise and
they'll tell you there's this specific
past path that people go down from right
initial interest through to converted
customer but certainly from my own
experience of running sales calls it
very rarely goes smoothly right it's
never like stage one stage two stage
three done
right you know someone just
on they go straight to being a customer
just like you intended uh no no it's not
usually a straight line unfortunately I
think having that line there having that
funnel out there is nice to help you
guide your thought process and I know a
lot of marketers align their content to
those stages of the funnel making sure
you've got plenty for the awareness
piece to get everybody in making sure
you've got something that pushes them to
convert
um I like to say it's a lot more like a
plate of spaghetti someone's gonna show
up they're gonna come out they're gonna
kind of loop back around they're going
to have learned something else about
whatever your topic might be they're
going to need a refresher course so they
might look like they're skipping from
I'm about ready to buy to nope never
mind tell me a little bit more about you
so there's just not going to be that's
not the way humans work it's very rare
that we say yep I I'm here I'm ready to
go here I'm gonna buy your product
especially in B2B and especially in SAS
right like there's just so many
variables that people have to consider
and I mean you even have multiple people
in there A lot of times right like your
whole buyer's committee is not typically
one person
unless you've found a unicorn who's both
holding the budget and making the
decisions on your software like I don't
know that that person exists very often
and if they're doing their job they are
considering multiple projects or
products so they're they're putting you
up against lots of things trying to get
as much knowledge as they can before
they even talk to a salesperson
definitely and I suppose that it gets
more and more complex the more detailed
the more more Technical and the higher
price point of your offer whether it is
SAS whether that's a service and then
naturally like you said the decision
making timeline is going to increase the
amount of people involved in the
decision process is going to increase
therefore this is when this cycle from
initial awareness and interest to close
customer can like you quite rightly said
there can be more like a a bowl of
spaghetti rather than just a linear
straight line that you took would be a
few days at least most sales reps would
when it could take months or even years
exactly yeah exactly and that's what
we're starting to see
into stays or they could be months and
months and months um the longest one
that we've seen in our own data was like
over 300 days which is close to a year
but
um and yeah even if I think what you
mentioned there too it's like it could
just be a high consideration product
think of buying an engagement ring think
of buying a house think of the like
going on a really nice vacation if
you're thinking about all these things
you're not going from
I'm ready to go on vacation to I know
exactly where I'll go with one Google
search
you're just
quite ready to do that you kind of want
to know what else is out there and
understand if it's the right fit for you
and does it meet the needs that you need
for that vacation so there's a lot that
goes into it and that's a lot of what
B2B marketers have to consider when
you're making all of this content did
you get everything that they need to you
know your SEO I just had an awesome
conversation um with a guy named Kevin
indig he's formerly from Shopify like
all these places you'll find him on
LinkedIn talking about SEO but tying
that to growth even and that's like
usually considered incredibly top of
funnel to even just bring people in so
it's all something that you need to be
tying down to conversion but it's all
something that you need to be
considering there how's that for
terrible advice you have to consider one
thing very specifically but you also
have to consider everything
consider this then all of this well I
can relate like I've got a very similar
example like for this this show I just
upgraded we had a Sony SLR for the last
couple years and I thought this is
adding no real production value what I'm
about to tell you to my podcast but I
just wanted a lens that added a cool
background blur so I was like there's no
real need for this but I'm going to
spend three four hundred dollars on it
because I think it looks cool and
therefore I spent the next month or so
researching looking at reviews on
YouTube finding out that the Sigma lens
was the one wanted then I was still
unsure so I read some articles on it
then I read some more reviews then I
talked to some people that I knew on
LinkedIn that had a really cool setup
and then they advised me on the lens and
eventually I took the plunge and bought
it so it was very unlinear skipping back
and forth across different channels
different mediums right decided to
invest yeah that's a perfect example and
think of how many times even you skipped
back and forth to the Sony website right
like it wouldn't have been that you in
one session moved from the you know like
what are what is a camera down through
to which one is the right one for me you
would have said okay what does Sony have
available gone out and asked all of your
buddies and then come back and so
something like a traditional Analytics
is really going to be difficult to track
you I mean you can kind of see like
there's plenty of things out there right
but when it comes to just like a single
session which is what you typically get
with a lot of these web analytics it's
like well here you are but you left and
came back so that started a new session
they didn't necessarily catch that you
know perhaps the first thing they
brought you in was a really great ad but
now you're back because you've come in
from LinkedIn so Bonk reset yeah for
sure
yeah I can completely agree I mean as as
people are all quite thick all right and
when you combine that with investing in
something that's possibly can have a
huge impact on your company possibly put
your job on the line if you get the
decision wrong yeah you've got to get
the approval of your peers your
colleagues then there becomes a lot
Weighing on these kind of decisions so
making sure you make the right move is
is critical
um exactly with that said is there one
piece like one part of the uh BSB sales
funnel a marketing funnel that you think
is the most important
um I mean everybody wants that
conversion right like everybody wants
you go click on demo everybody wants you
to buy but I I would say that it's
something that people know that you have
to focus on the entire thing it's just
been really difficult to do so a lot of
emphasis has been put on the bottom of
the funnel because that's something that
is really easy to track it's really easy
to look at that demo form and say we got
X number of people to come in this month
this quarter this week sometimes
um it's less easy and it's easy too I
would say for that first touch you can
see your Source traffic you can see a
lot of times Salesforce has that first
attributed campaign
um that comes in and says this is the
first thing that they interacted with us
where we could see who they are
um and that makes it difficult for you
to know what to optimize in the middle
because there haven't been really those
attrib those um the analytics or the
tools
that really show you how they got from
first touch to last touch and that's
something that's been super frustrating
for me as a marketer because I've always
kind of played in this middle space I've
hosted lots of webinars and all I've
been doing the email nurture programs
kind of that jack of all trades SAS
marketer to where I'm not SEO and I'm
not you know I'm not the person who's
booking the demos I'm not the person
who's hosting the demos I've always been
that person who's sitting there saying
well I think this is something that's
important to our audience we need to
make sure it's out there
um so it's been really interesting to me
now working at Notch how we're able to
see what's here in the middle and so
just to kind of expand on that what
we're able to see is like
uh you know example of a Blog if you
know that you have a hundred pieces of
blog content out there it's kind of
common knowledge to know that it not all
of those are getting hits not all of
those are pushing people to finally say
yes this is a good product and I want to
see more
but it's really really difficult with
the metrics that we have available to us
to confirm that
um there's some proxy metrics and
there's something like people would call
them vanity metrics I don't actually
enjoy calling them that because I do
think that most metrics are important as
long as you put them in context but it's
something where like you know traffic is
not a great proxy for efficacy you know
you might get tons and tons of traffic
to a great SEO blog but if they don't
ultimately lead down to saying I want to
learn more about your company that's not
a good blog for your business
like sorry like there's a good the good
amount of awareness happening probably
but it could be the awareness where they
show up they say and then they never
come back
um so that's what we're able to look
through and Notch and like with our data
is seeing that completed customer
Journey from beginning to end what is
actually showing up in these Journeys
where people do convert so truly tying
all of those top and middle and bottom
down to uh business value really
um
so that said I'm not going to pimp Notch
the whole time I promised
um with the pros and cons and podcasts
that I've been hosting I've been talking
to people who have been
understanding their middle of the funnel
a lot better
um and so just understanding how it is
that you start to optimize on these and
understand what's truly working there in
the middle so it's been really
interesting talking to um Tara Robertson
she's a podcast host over at chili Piper
I think she's been a fan of the show
here too
um
talking to her like kind of getting
geeky about podcasts in general and
saying like how do you understand that
these are truly valuable to your
business and she had some great great
ways to see that when it came to just
kind of combining different channels so
you know like using your LinkedIn using
your podcast Clips on a LinkedIn ad
LinkedIn video ad to make sure that it's
resonating like does that wind up
getting better ctrs for your for that
particular ad campaign because that
means that your key audience is like
yeah this made sense and I do want to go
over to the chili Piper website whatever
it might be
got it yeah no some nice examples and
yeah like you say Tara's been on the
show a few times so she's got some great
okay good great past episodes where we
talked about website conversion and
ungating content and B2B marketing best
place so be sure to check those out
um yeah to say to take a quick step back
for anyone that's thinking
that's middle of the I basically
just want to make middle of funnel
crystal clear for anyone that's not
familiar with exactly what it was so
does that just mean someone that's
halfway decided that yeah I might buy I
might not I'm about 50 there I need to
see XYZ and then I'm ready to buy is
that what it means or is there is is
there a solid definition or
that's a great question and I don't know
that there is going to be the same
definition person to person definitely
one of those you get two people in a
room and they'll describe it a little
differently what you set up is accurate
in the audience that we're targeting so
it's people who you know I think there
are and this is something that
um we're exploring a little bit even
just over on our blog there are
different archetypes of people who come
to your website right there are people
who show up and they've done tons of you
know you quote unquote dark social
research so they've gone into
communities to ask about different
products and when they show up on your
website it's because someone they trust
has used the product and recommends you
and so it's like they'll land and
they'll convert so that could be one
Journey that people wind up going on
kind of from the middle but more likely
there's going to be a whole bubble of an
audience that's just kind of not
motivated just yet to get there so it is
those people who you know they've made
it past awareness they're very much
familiar with your industry but they're
not to the point where they're ready to
convert and that's your job then as a
marketer is to say to create that demand
for your product but then also to create
the demand in a way that they say oh
this is a need to have not an
interesting to know about or a nice to
have
yeah long-winded way I think there's
probably a more um official definition
out there but I'd like the last time
especially yeah I like the last line
from making it a need to have rather
than like a nice to have so um so
someone's basically become familiar the
the then they're needing this well
they're aware of the solution they know
the solutions are out there and then
kind of placing it so it's it's
something that's really important to
their goals I suppose
yeah and I think of some examples of
that like I feel like HubSpot probably
had to do that way back in the day which
is like they've been around since I've
been a marketer I remember having a
HubSpot like print out on my cubicle
wall at one point that was like here's
the 15 email best practices right and so
figuring out like them figuring out that
that's a really important piece of
marketing and then just totally owning
it and then helping me to understand
that the way to make my job easier is to
buy HubSpot right to say we can organize
all of this for you and it was wonderful
and unfortunately for them I was working
at a non-profit at the time and they
don't have any money but it was still
something then that when I got to the
next place which already had HubSpot
installed it's like this is incredible
and I'm so loyal already and I want to
be a really good HubSpot user so
creating that demand is is important but
I think framing it in a way that says
you have to have whatever this is
because it's going to improve your life
it's going to improve your metrics it's
going to like whatever it is I think
that's the thing that people
I see it happen a lot where people just
want to say our product is really cool
and it's like that's yeah you're going
to get some people who just want to be
early adopters who want to have whatever
it is that that is but ultimately to
make it a really
sticky solid you know synonymous with
marketing I mean that's where I play
synonymous with your industry product
um you've got to really know them and so
that's where that middle of the funnel
is where you prove that it's where you
start to build that trust hmm so with
that in mind
a I'm guessing a lot of these prospects
would probably visit our website maybe
we're retargeting them with ads on
channels that they might hang out on I.E
LinkedIn like you alluded to earlier
maybe we're serving the mads with micro
eclipse from our podcast that we think
is useful maybe we're serving them like
I don't know customer testimonial videos
or maybe we're guiding them to a useful
resource let's have the website grader
we could kind of put in your website URL
and it would spit out some ideas to
optimize it and improve conversion rates
whatever
um
I guess I've got a two-part question
because the chances are the more complex
and the more Technical and detailed and
higher price point of your offer chances
are these prospects are probably
comparing at least two to three vendors
um so any ideas on how we can make our
offer actually stand out from the crowd
and then any any channel channel
recommendations on how you should
actually go to market with your mid
funnel offer or your Midfield process in
general
sure it's a great question and I think
it's something that people struggle with
a lot because as much as we all want to
feel like we're unicorns for the most
part there's something else out there
that is doing something very similar and
to not
um inadvertently push traffic over to
your competitor it's really important to
get this step right
so what we
really think what I really think is
important I should say is to figure out
what makes you distinct not even
necessarily just different what is so
that's like frequently called your value
prop
um what is it that really takes you and
stands you apart from the competition
but that more than just being a value
prop needs to be what really defines you
as a brand we actually just had this
really great panel discussion with
representatives from Marriott and Geico
and sabbles UK about this so it's like
how do you lean into the values that
your company has or the
um it could be yeah like the product
features but what is it about what you
offer but also how you do business that
makes you distinct um there was a really
great example from Marriott to where
they leaned into not just kind of
sustainable travel but the idea that
Marriott is here to help you do that
like they've got a whole you know sub
website spun up for someone who's ready
to be into sustainable travel which is
because of a Marriott value and that is
something that sticks in someone's brain
a little bit harder just than
sustainable travel right so like anyway
you can find sustainable travel most
places but you can't always find a brand
that's really honed in on that thing and
like not just saying it to get your
dollars but saying it to make the world
a better place you know I think that's
important too for like a gen Z audience
is they sniff out you being
um inauthentic pretty much immediately
if you're just up there posturing saying
of course you know Save the Planet great
great as long as you're giving us your
twenty dollars we'll save the planet
versus a brand that says we're going to
do this with or without your 20 we'd
really like you in this cause with us or
in these values with us so um
that was a kind of a really long-winded
way of saying lean into not just what
you think people want to hear but kind
of do some
you know business little searching if
you want to go that far and say this is
what we're going to Anchor into which
then helps you define your messaging in
a way that is consistent you're not kind
of having to reinvent yourself every 12
months because that was that was then
and this is now it's a solid
a solid value a solid piece of your
business kind of a piece of you as a
piece of that business that's like we
can lean into this anytime this is why
you would want to work with us because
we believe in this
got it okay yeah some nice advice so in
terms of this content does it have to be
on your website or as a landing page
um or other different ways to serve it
to people perhaps we are retargeting
website visitors that have been on the
site and maybe had a certain session
times where they we know that they're
partly interested because they've been
on a few key pages of our site then
we're choosing to retarget them with ads
does that mean we can serve them in feed
content like on LinkedIn or does that
mean that we should always try and get
them back to our website are there are
there any best players or anything
you've seen work well yourself Ellen or
anything that you recommend that
companies do that are trying to kind of
put this into play or anything you've
seen work well
so I do think having a truly integrated
campaign can help you kind of stick in
people's brains a little bit better it
gets harder and harder to track the
further and further away from your site
you get but that is not something that I
want to encourage people to not do just
because you can't bring it all back to
your site
um there's incredible things you can do
if you're really disciplined about your
UTM code game you know like bringing
people back from a outdoor ad even if
you do like a
webchoiceuk.com
Ellen is great and then it you know is
definitely from this podcast or from a
from a billboard or something on the
side you know have that redirect to a
bunch of UTM codes but um what I've seen
work best is when you all just like kind
of anchor into that one catchphrase but
then more than that it's understanding
the audience that's kind of ready to buy
so there's a lot you can do with intent
data and then figuring out where they
play and partnering I think influencer I
don't want to say influencer uh
marketing because I think that makes
everybody of Instagram I'm thinking more
of like a LinkedIn influencer so like
someone like a the Nick Bennetts of the
world right so someone who's just like
totally honed in on your Niche and this
could be something like I think of
people who are like in transportation
and Logistics like there's going to be
someone who is the transportation
Logistics Guru and who wants to who has
already built their own following and is
probably starting to offer something
along those lines but like buddying up
to aligning yourself with people of that
nature
um so back to your original question of
like does it have to all be digital I
say absolutely not but it does have to
be coherent and it has to be something
where you're just really ready to track
where everything came back from so that
you can understand what worked we're
just in a moment in time where you can't
lean on gut feel anymore
um I think you know right now everybody
is worried about a recession and that's
affecting these and that's really what's
pushing this topic of conversation to
say you have to know where your dollars
are going but I do think that's just a
trend that we're going to see in
marketing in general we have lots and
lots of metrics nowadays and it will
always be a mix of you know Beauty Arts
and Science Beauty and beauty and brains
but it's in its needs to just be to the
point where you're leaning a little bit
more on the brains
mainly because that's where the rest of
the business is able to lean
um and it'll I don't know it's probably
introducing the whole back and forth
within marketers about which one's more
important but I think right now
especially you have to be ready to say
this was what was effective and is what
we should either reinvest in or expand
the program because it's bringing in
business it's like we really need
business right now y'all come on like
bring it in
yeah so you mentioned something then I
mean recession recession's going on a
lot of tech companies especially are
making job Cuts left right and Center
yeah um funding is becoming harder to
get so if we're a marketer trying to
propose a mid-touch a mid funnel offer
any tips for how we can
I suppose get buy-in from the c-suite
but also for those type of signals that
we should look out for to then prove
that this concept is actually valuable
and it's working and it's contributing
to towards bottom line in Revenue
yeah so first of all if you're in the
boat of having been the person who's let
go or you're watching your cohort your
co-workers be let go right now my heart
goes out to you I've been on both sides
of that and it stinks pretty much no
matter what happens so it's a hard spot
to be in I think unfortunately it's also
really underlining this idea that we're
talking about um which is what you
mentioned Sam which is that you really
need to show what's what's providing
value to the business right now excuse
me
um
so the ways that I'm seeing people do
this and again this is a lot of great
conversations I've had with the pros and
consent podcast is first step is to
underline your baseline or sorry first
step is to understand your Baseline
metrics so what are you doing right now
and is it converting so if you are you
know hosting a webinar hosting a podcast
are those showing up in your data
um not not a huge proponent of
self-reported attribution there's pros
and cons um but that's a way to see it
so if it's showing up in your metrics
um but the other thing too is just
seeing so you've got say a hundred you
know ebook downloads of those 100 what
did they do next it's a lot of finding
how good is that next step
um as a mature marketer it's no longer
good enough for you to sit there and say
my individual metrics are great my 100
ebook downloads is exactly what you
asked for
because what people actually asked for
is for those 100 downloads to turn into
solid leads you know if you're doing the
mql game that's what that needs to turn
into so in this example you would want
to say all right on average these 100
ebook downloads are turning into 20 mqls
I need to figure out how to up that
number I need to figure out okay these
were the 20 mqls where did they come
from how is there anything alike about
them did they understand something
better than other people and start to
um really hone that Journey backwards
and then once you start to improve that
what's the next step all right those
were 20 mqls five of them turned into a
business opportunity
great what about those 20 turned into
this and start just like really
um I keep saying honing but like
fine-tuning those that Journey more
words and backwards so when it comes to
being they're in the middle that can
look like the journey velocity so you've
got someone to land on your page how
long did it take them to convert to a
demo because that's also money like if
you can say sit there and say right
right now it's taking about 20 days for
someone to go from 0 to 10 or 0 to 60.
what's the right metaphor here
um so going from zero to demo
um if you can drop that by five days
that's a 25 increase in velocity that
means instead of you know like that
means in 30 days you're gonna get
double than you would have normally
that's the value that's something that
you can show I've figured out how to
really
put these steps in the most efficient
way or guide my audience along a really
efficient
excuse me a really efficient Journey
um
with us there's one that's one example
yeah yeah that's that's great I mean
ultimately that's that's probably the
word velocity so if you can prove that
you've been able to speed up the cell
cycle and get prospects from an issue
interest stage right through to demo
then closed deal Revenue in in the bank
then that's going to be a no-brainer for
the rest of the board for the c-suite
whoever your management team are right
um and if you can say look this is just
a small experiment where we've put
together this middle touch program maybe
we've won some run some retargeting ads
maybe we've done some podcasting maybe
we've set up a few kind of bit funnel
landing pages that have a specific
offering
um some kind of magnet some kind of hook
some kind of video resource and that
addresses are prospects pain points
gives them a little bit of value gives
them a little bit of teaser and then
prompts them to take the next step we
did that 60 days ago but since then like
uh our sales Cycles kind of sped up I
don't know a week or two weeks whatever
great brainer right exactly that and
that's part of what understanding the
full Journey can do I love like the
example you gave I think is great to
where it's like we started serving them
video ads at a certain step that's what
if you can see that full digital funnel
you can start to really optimize that
and say we notice that people go from
you know blog intro blog post a but then
they go and they say okay but I have
another question I need to understand
what that word means they're constantly
clicking on this definition that we
provided all right so start putting that
definition in the copy right like do a
little call out box so that you're not
losing them on that page and then you
know like make sure then that if the
next step that they do after that is to
go watch a video say hey click here to
watch a video make it stupid simple
because that's what you need people to
do is to spend as much time on your site
with you building that trust building
that um Authority on the topic so it's
something that like I said kind of just
that full funnel view to kind of bring
it back to that top question you had is
important because that's what you're
trying to optimize that's what you're
trying to really just get in us as
straight a line as possible knowing that
you're never kind of going to succeed
but at least helping them go from step
one two three faster easier whatever
that might be nice one awesome well in
the appreciate you coming on appreciate
you sharing ideas around all the stages
of funnel especially the the middle
section
um so with that please do tell us more
about how one tuning in can learn more
about yourself connect with you and a
bit more about notch yeah and thank you
Sam this has been a really really cool
conversation so I appreciate you
inviting me
um what I would love people to know is
that as you mentioned I ran the pros and
content podcast which is also for B2B
marketers specifically Jimmy and Jen
growth digital marketers
um as mentioned a few times I'm talking
to them about what are they doing
hanging out in the middle of funnel how
are they understanding how to optimize
that for business growth so really tying
their work down to that bottom line so
lots of really practical advice there
would love to see a few of your
subscribers check us out um that would
be really really really great so that's
Notch with a k k n o t c h you can find
me on LinkedIn and you can find notch on
the on the internet
so
there you go I'll put all those links in
the show notes at business
growth.marketing and with that thanks
once again Ellen enjoy the chat yeah
thank you Sam no problem as always if
you enjoyed today's episode a quick
rating or review on Apple podcast goes a
long way or if you're on YouTube a
subscriber is appreciated and we shall
catch you on the next one for more no BS
actionable B2B marketing tips grow
business grow bottom line see you soon